### Glossary of terms

**- Artificial Intelligence:** is a broad concept referring to a program's ability to learn by itself and solve sophisticated tasks. Machine Learning is a sub-field of Artificial Intelligence, which comprises a variety of algorithms enabling programs to solve tasks without being explicitly programmed to do so. You can find [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_uwKZIAeM0) an overview of this technology. The concept of Machine Learning encompasses many statistical methods that have been around for decades, to which recent technological progress has given a new vigor.

**- Artificial Neural Network:** is a class of algorithms comprising many interconnected units called artificial neurons, which loosely model the neurons in a biological brain. Each unit processes information and can transmit a signal to other units. Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) are a very flexible class of algorithms able to learn from large datasets. They underpin many Machine Learning applications, such as image and video recognition or natural language processing. You can find [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aircAruvnKk&list=PLZHQObOWTQDNU6R1_67000Dx_ZCJB-3pi&index=3) a deeper explanation of how ANNs work.

**- Compounds:** are small molecules generated and studied as part of drug discovery , with an accompanying chemical structure representation.

**- Genes:** are functional units of DNA, encoding RNA, and ultimately proteins. Variants of a gene’s DNA sequence may be associated with disease(s).

**- In Vitro:** refers to studies and experiments taking place outside the body, either in cells or in cell-free, highly defined systems.

**- In Vivo:** refers to studies and experiments taking place in a physiological context (e.g. animal or human study).

**- Reinforcement Learning:** is a subfield of Machine Learning, concerned with developing algorithms that allow an agent to learn how to make decisions by trial and error through interaction with an uncertain and potentially complex environment. In Reinforcement Learning, an agent learns to take actions based on its current state and a reward signal provided by the environment, in order to maximize a cumulative reward signal over time. The agent uses exploration strategies to learn the underlying structure of the environment, and it updates its decision-making policy over time using mathematical techniques such as dynamic programming, Monte Carlo methods, and temporal difference learning. Reinforcement Learning has been successfully applied to a wide range of problems in robotics, game playing, natural language processing, recommendation systems, and more.

**- Gene:** a gene is a part of our DNA that contains the instructions for making proteins or RNA molecules. The information in genes is used by our cells to produce the proteins and other molecules that make up our bodies and perform vital functions. A gene is the basic unit of inheritance in living organisms. Genes are organized into discrete units within the genome, and they determine the structure and function of cells, tissues, and organisms. The nucleotide sequence of a gene provides the information necessary for the production of a specific RNA or protein molecule, which in turn performs a specific function in the cell or organism. Gene expression is regulated by a variety of mechanisms, including transcriptional control, post-transcriptional modifications, and epigenetic modifications, which allow cells to respond to internal and external stimuli and adapt to changing environments. Mutations in genes can alter the sequence of the encoded protein or RNA molecule, which can affect its function and contribute to the development of genetic diseases or changes in phenotypic traits.

**- Graphs:** intend to accumulate and express knowledge of the real world, using nodes to represent entities of interest and edges to represent relations between these entities. Nodes are the elements that create the network. They could represent houses, locations, airports, ports, bus stops, buildings, users, and anything you could represent as being connected to similar elements in a network. Edges are connections between the nodes. They could represent streets, flights, bus routes, a connection between two users in a social network, or anything that could represent a connection between the nodes in the context you are working with. You can find [here](https://medium.com/@lopezyse/your-guide-to-graphs-7e36d122c38c) a brief description of them.

**- Semi Supervised Learning:** is a type of machine learning that falls in between supervised and unsupervised learning. It is a method that uses a small amount of labeled data and a large amount of unlabeled data to train a model. The goal of semi-supervised learning is to learn a function that can accurately predict the output variable based on the input variables, similar to supervised learning. However, unlike supervised learning, the algorithm is trained on a dataset that contains both labeled and unlabeled data. Semi-supervised learning is particularly useful when there is a large amount of unlabeled data available, but it’s too expensive or difficult to label all of it.

**- Supervised Learning:** as opposed to unsupervised learning (where there is no output variable to guide the learning process and data is explored by algorithms to find patterns), in supervised learning your existing data is already labelled and you know which behaviour you want to predict in the new data you obtain. This is the type of algorithms that autonomous cars use to recognize pedestrians and objects, or organizations exploit to estimate customers lifetime value and their churn rates.
In a way, supervised learning is like learning with a teacher, and then apply that knowledge to new data.

**- Unsupervised Learning:**  means there is no output variable to guide the learning process (no this or that, no right or wrong) and data is explored by algorithms to find patterns. We only observe the features but have no established measurements of the outcomes since we want to find them out. As opposed to supervised learning where your existing data is already labeled and you know which behaviour you want to determine in the new data you obtain, unsupervised learning techniques don’t use labelled data and the algorithms are left to themselves to discover structures in the data.
